then God remembered no and every living
thing and all the animals that were with
him in the ark and God made a wind to
pass through the earth and the water is
Society the Fountains of the deep and
the windows of heaven were also stopped
and the rain from heaven was restrained
and the waters receded continually from
the earth at the end of the hundred and
fifty days the waters decreased then the
ark rested in the seventh month the
seventeenth day on the mountains of
Ararat
and the waters decreased continually
until the tenth month in the tenth month
on the first day of the month the tops
of the mountains were seen so it came to
pass at the end of 40 days that Noah
opened the window of the ark which he
had made then he sent out a raven which
kept going to and fro until the waters
had dried up from the earth he also sent
out from himself a does to see if the
waters had receded from the face of the
ground but the dad found no resting
place for the sole of her foot and she
returned into the ark to him for the
waters were on the face of the whole
earth so he put out his hand and took
her and drew her into the ark to himself
and he waited yet another seven days and
again he sent the Dove out from the ark
then the Dove came to him in the evening
and behold a freshly plucked olive leaf
was in her mouth and Noah knew that the
waters had receded from the earth so he
waited yet another seven days and sent
out the dawn which did not return again
to him anymore and it came to pass and
the six hundred first year in the first
month the first day of the month that
the waters were dried up from the earth
and Noah removed the covering of the arm
and looked and indeed the surface of the
ground was dry and in the second month
on the 27th day
the earth was dried when God spoke to
Noah go out of the ark you and your wife
and your sons and your sons wives with
you bring out with you every living
thing of all flesh that is with you
birds and cattle and every creeping
thing that creeps on the earth so that
they may abound on the earth and be
fruitful and multiply on the earth so
Noah went out and his sons and his wife
and his sons wives with him every animal
every creeping thing every bird and
whatever creeps on the earth according
to their families without of the ark
[Music]
[Applause]
then Noah built an altar to the Lord and
took of every clean animal and of every
clean bird and offered burnt offerings
on the altar and the Lord smelled a
soothing aroma and the Lord said in his
heart I will never again curse the
ground for man's sake
although the imagination of man's heart
is evil from his youth nor will I again
destroy every living thing as I have
done while the earth remains seedtime
and harvest cold and heat winter and
summer and day and night shall not cease
you